300 ml dry Marsala wine (see note)

180 ml homemade chicken stock or low-sodium store-bought broth

10g unflavored gelatin, such as Knox (2 1/2 teaspoons; )

780 g total (~ 4 boneless, skinless chicken cutlets

Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

140 g flour for dredging

60 ml extra-virgin olive oil, plus more if needed

280 g cremini mushrooms, stemmed and thinly sliced

165 g shallots minced

8g garlic, minced

3 g minced fresh thyme leaves

45 g cold unsalted butter, cut into cubes

5 ml soy sauce

White wine vinegar, sherry vinegar, or fresh lemon juice, to taste

Minced fresh parsley, for garnish

Dire

ctions

Combine Marsala and stock in a mixing bowl or large measuring cup and sprinkle gelatin all over surface. Set aside.
Marsala and stock in a measuring glass with gelatin being sprinkled on top.

Serious Eats / Vicky Wasik

Season chicken cutlets all over with salt and pepper. Pour a roughly 1/2-inch layer of flour into a wide, shallow bowl. Dredge each cutlet in flour, tap off excess, and transfer to clean plate.

Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Working in batches if necessary, add chicken and cook, turning once, until browned on both sides, about 3 minutes per side. Using a slotted spatula, transfer to paper towels to drain.
Chicken cutlets cooking in a skillet for chicken marsala.

Serious Eats / Vicky Wasik

Add mushrooms to skillet (do not drain remaining oil) and cook, stirring frequently, until mushrooms have released their juices and browned well, about 10 minutes. Add shallots, garlic, and thyme and cook, stirring, until shallots are translucent, about 2 minutes. Add more oil if pan seems too dry at any point.
Mushrooms cooking and browning in a skillet for chicken marsala.

Serious Eats / Vicky Wasik

Pour Marsala mixture into pan, making sure to scrape in all the gelatin. Bring to a boil, whisking and scraping up any browned bits from bottom of pan, until liquids are reduced by about three-quarters. Add butter and soy sauce and whisk constantly until emulsified and sauce takes on the consistency of heavy cream. Season with salt and pepper. Taste sauce and adjust with a small amount of vinegar or lemon juice, as needed.

Return chicken cutlets to pan, swirling to bathe them in the sauce and warm them through. If the sauce begins to break at any point, swirl in a splash of water to bring it back together. Transfer to a warmed serving plate, spooning sauce all over chicken. Garnish with parsley and serve. 